headline J's two cents world's most
beloved youtuber talks about graphics
cards and CPUs at the end of 2019 versus
what he said at the middle of 2019 based
on hypothetical stuff only versus now
having actual hands-on experience
headline print I said print looking for
a new PC or PC hardware then today's
sponsor Micro Center is guaranteed to
have what you need
micro centers huge selection of hardware
and devices along with their
industry-leading prices mean you get
more for your money this holiday season
with build your own micro Center carries
the latest in PC tech from all major
brands while passionate knowledgeable
sales staff are available to assist you
with your next build not comfortable
building it yourself then certified
in-store technicians can build it for
you in as little as the same day to see
all that micro Center has to offer and
to find the store closest to you click
the sponsor link in the description
below all year long I said wait don't
buy or build a computer yet just wait
well if you listen to me then
congratulations you're of the crowd that
listened to me because everything's out
now so we're gonna do we're gonna talk
about whether or not it was worth
waiting did you get what you were hoping
you would get from these companies some
of the companies may giving you more
than you wanted and not exactly what you
asked for and some of these companies
might be giving you more than you want
it but not quite everything you want yet
we just got done reviewing basically the
last product launch of the year happens
to be the 1650 super in the 1650 which
is not technically new ish versus the
brand new 5500 XT for gigabyte and eight
gigabyte we've seen all the AMD CPUs
they're all out now but I specifically
made a video a few months back that was
like don't buy or build your computer
yet because we needed this stuff to come
out because what happens when this stuff
comes out is a little bit of a pricing
shift and not only that you could have
buyer's remorse if you say went out and
bought yourself a twenty seven hundred
and then suddenly realize like oh crap I
could have gotten myself like a thirty
six hundred or a thirty eight hundred
and gotten better performance for
roughly the same price or 2700 at much
cheaper than what you bought it for so
these are the reasons why I make this
content because you understand we're
under NDA there's we can't talk about
stuff before we're allowed to talk about
it and so if I put out a video little
insider tip here inside our trading tip
I'm gonna go to prison like Martha
Stewart and do it in style if I put out
a video that says weights doing it for a
reason I am literally trying to save you
money or from a bad decision if I say
don't buy anything right now wait a
little bit I can't possibly make it any
more clear that I'm telling you an upset
is coming and that's what's exactly
happened here so
Rison is out which really only kind of
isn't interesting to the people that
we're considering buying like the X 299
from Intel or X 399 thread Ripper stuff
which it's funny because this is a whole
new platform now so I guess that kind of
sucked see no I guess that kind of
proves my point let's just say you were
like alright I'm gonna buy I'm gonna buy
a risin thread ripper 29 50 or whatever
it replaced the nineteen fifty right
you're like okay cool I've got a crate
pad so I've got my board and everything
and I can just plop in a new one no
unfortunately not because this is a
whole different socket even though it
looks the same the pinouts entirely
different so unfortunately whereas AMD
promised you a m4 plus like future
proofing - like 2020 or something like
that or 2022 they never promised that
with Red River and so forth red ripper
third gen to work they had to do some
repurposing of pins and kind of
rearrange the way that the actual traces
work which means you are not forward
compatible if you have a thread Ripper
398 X 399 you do not have forward
compatibility with what's here so it had
you weight it then you'd be able to do
this so now in order to take advantage
of the third Ripper you've got to buy a
new motherboard but that aside a m4 plus
x4 70 is compatible with the new 39 hour
3000 series Verizon and stuff which is
technically Verizon to 3000 series so
it's kind of confusing there but the
graphics cards are all out now and since
I made my recent video about whether or
not you should wait
I think in-video launched another like
three super cards nobody asked for one
of them sitting over there but now we've
got our entry-level stuff from AMD so if
you haven't watched this video yet
regarding the review of these cards the
four gig in the 8 gig then you need to
go and watch that video now because that
sort of shows you that there is some
really good cutthroat competition taking
place in the price point most people
seem to be shopping which is around the
$200 price point for the graphics cards
now it's a perfect time to buy and build
your computer not only just right now in
December of 2019 because Christmas sales
and Black Friday is over but there was
some really there was some decent black
brightest those nothing amazing to write
home about SSDs are cheaper than they've
ever been
you can still get yourself a SATA SSD
like a one terabyte SATA SSD for like
$200
ok maybe even less than I think it's
actually like 140 and you can get a 2
terabyte now for like the $200 range you
can get a 500 gigabyte for like 7 years
no actually less than that 60 bucks
because I just bought Phil a 500
gigabyte m2 nvme SSDs Samsung 974 70
bucks to use as a scratch disk for what
he does is editing yourself the 3950 is
out which is just caused all sorts of
upset at the top end of the mainstream
desktop computing for not only gaming
but also for its kind of a really good
stopgap CPU between not needing
necessarily the workload of the tasks
that you would use thread Ripper for or
even X 299 or the extreme stuff from
Intel but you want to do live streaming
and you want to play around with virtual
machines or you want to play around with
anything that needs multi-threading or
you just like to watch your plob blah
blah blah blah blah blah blah while
you're playing a game one-handed that
was really inappropriate but a 39 50 X
is 750 bucks if that's too much you can
get 8 core 16 thread CPUs from AMD now
around the 300 dollar mark and a couple
of years ago that is something that was
not even possible unless you went up to
the intel extreme platform and we're
willing to pay $1,000 for like a 59 8
exe or nobody think they were called XC
back then but unless you were gonna pay
for the 80 series of any of the intel
extreme stuff you were never gonna get
that kind of pork count but what's also
happened here is the competition taking
place on the CPU side has definitely
driven prices downward even for Intel
Intel came out with the core i6 which
anyway they came out with the KS which
is just a bend and overclocked version
of the K but even then it drove the
price of the K down slightly so although
it might not necessarily be the most
competitive out there in terms of price
or the most compelling buy you have
options now and that's what makes right
now the perfect time to buy Ram is cheap
Ram is extremely cheap when you could
buy 16 gigs now for the same price we
were only able to buy eight gigs for
exactly a year to a year and a half ago
you now have double the core count for
around the same price you would get an
i5 for just a couple of years ago
motherboard prices that's something that
I think is kind of unexpected and then
it's gone up a bit in price as AMD has
become more popular leather
manufacturers they all have their top
tier AMD offerings now you can spend
seventy eight hundred dollars on a
motherboard if you want or you can spend
a modest 100 to 150 bucks and go with
like an X 470 and still have all the
features of their gen rise in with the
exception of PCIe gen 4 for really fast
storage now is the time to buy so what
we want to do is we want to put together
a few build guides for different price
points a lot of the other folks in my
genre here like Paul and cotton all them
they all do like here's a 600 all our
guide here's a $1,000 guide and they
won't necessarily build the systems but
they'll they'll kind of put out a like a
parts list and they'll show you
theoretically how they perform and stuff
so if you want to see us do something
like that it would be very helpful if
you guys comment it down below in what
you think the appropriate price ranges
are I seen a lot of people say that J do
a brand new build at $300 that's that I
wish that was possible that's called an
Xbox a used one unfortunately it's not
going to happen but when it comes to
waiting now's the time to buy it because
nothing new is truly coming out Computex
in 29 29
backwards Computex 2020 is when we'll
probably see some of the newer stuff
coming out from intel intel has to
respond this they have no choice there's
even a whole nother topic that feel kind
of wants to dive into at some point
about whether or not Intel truly even
cares about any of this crap for gamers
because all of their money money comes
from enterprise solutions server people
that are buying $75,000 workstations and
stuff for the professional space and
that's where they make their money not
gamers and the Intel's turn their back
on gamers and Phil thinks that Intel
should die and no Phil doesn't think
that but it's one of those things where
Intel right might honestly just not
truly care about you anymore
and it's kind of sad and they'll tell
you that they do because they can't tell
you that they don't but the way they
show you that they care about you is
they either really slash prices or start
giving you some competitive CPUs that
are happening versus what AMD is
currently offering right now but
regarding graphics cards though it's
kind of interesting because when we had
our meeting with AMD earlier this year
on e3 when they were kind of announcing
and talking about the 5700 and Navi and
all that sort of stuff or the rDNA
architecture that it was gonna be a lot
like Rison where it was gonna take it
was gonna take some time to kind of
mature but when it did it was gonna
bring the competition to Nvidia and
there was gonna be great competition
happening across the board the different
price points but it needs time to get
there it's kind of interesting because
the 5700 XT definitely cause I don't see
cause but definitely aided in the
arrival of the 2070 super which is which
is kind of funny because the 2070
disappeared entirely because of the 5700
XT but now it's back because in Nvidia
wants to keep an extremely crowded
product stack causing confusion for
everybody involved
the idea is to confuse them into buying
I don't know something that but we're
seeing the same through the 5500 where
it's definitely causing disruption in
that price point now we just need AMD to
launch the 5900 version or whatever
that's supposed to compete like the 20
80s I don't think they're going to be
able to compete with like a 20 ATT is
card for this a couple more years but
the timings right though if you
cards that matter for the buyers that
are truly buying in like where the bulk
ranges of people spending their money is
a 5500 the 5700 the 2060 the 2070 being
the top end and then most people
probably shopping more so around the 20
or 1660 ti2 and a $50 card 300 card
range which is where the competition
truly is right now you've got
competition in the CPU space happening
there you got competition in the GPU
space this is the best time probably as
long as I've been doing YouTube now
which is going on eight years that this
is the best PC gaming and building has
been there has not been this level of
competition since I've been doing
YouTube anyway which makes it all very
very exciting so what are you waiting
for go out and buy stuff now build a
computer now you already have a computer
I don't care build another one now yeah
I need that computer but I wanted it so
I built it
speaking of what you need to do
something else with skunkworks now I
feel like we're using that case for
something build I like building
computers what can I say I like building
computers i build boats computer boats
alright guys anyway just a little bit of
a PSA talking standing video I guess
bringing you some no I just I've seen a
lot I've got I've gotten a lot of
messages from people saying Jay is now
the time you said it wasn't the time a
while ago is now the time yes